It was a real great privilege for us as Beth Lies to be able to study for six days.
The governing body giving us time to study more about Jehovah's qualities was tremendous
to help build our spirituality.
For many Beth Lies this was like a gift from Jehovah because they had never attended before.
In fact one couple who had been 50 years in full-time service had never attended the Pioneer
School before.
I'd been invited twice before but unfortunately both times I wasn't able to go.
I felt like Jehovah was giving me a third chance and this time I wouldn't miss it.
At first you feel a little like this is strange, you're a Bethel, you know, at Pioneering.
But then when you've gone to the school and you've seen what the school actually does for your ministry,
it was really, you can see why the governing body, it was such a kind gift for them to give us this privilege of coming.
Just surrounded by people who have been pioneers for years, some have been to Gilead, some have been on the
travelling works of conducted Pioneer School for themselves. It's the best.
Even though they're in this spiritual environment, they need to be up bill.
As Bethelites we go out and service not as much as we did when we were pioneering.
So being able to have an effective use of our time in the ministry makes a big difference.
You learn a lot about the field ministry in Pioneer School, so on a month when 30 hours was an option,
I applied to auxiliary Pioneer and I also tried to participate a lot in the ministry on weekends.
This way I was able to prepare for the school.
I think that every Christian needs to have goals and even for us serving in Bethel we need goals.
So the main thing I learned from the school is that even working in Bethel I can do more for the congregation and make a bigger effort in the ministry.
After the Pioneer School, I realized I needed to cultivate more humility in my Bethel service and the field ministry.
Because there's so much spiritual food available at Bethel, it can become easy to neglect personal study.
Listening to the deeply meditated comments from the students and the instructors really stimulated me to also meditate more deeply.
During the school I had to study more than usual, so I had to set aside more time for reading so as to be well prepared for class.
It was really practical for me to improve my ministry and it's really nice because with this new school you have a demonstration of what you have to avoid and what is good to do.
There was a demonstration about what not to do in a Bible study and I saw myself doing some of those things.
So I realized that I really needed to get better at conducting Bible studies.
I remember one demonstration that taught us how we can witness informally in a supermarket line for example.
That demonstration gave me more confidence to witness informally.
In the school we learned a lot about Jesus, how he was hard working, zealous and showed genuine interest in the people around him.
That example helped me to be more hard working and zealous, as well as being more approachable to those who I work with.
That's why we're here in Bethel, we're used to support the preaching work. So it doesn't matter what assignment we have, it's in a way it's connected to that.
The footage of the spirit is not good just for the ministry, it's good for everything in every day life, toward our brothers and sisters.
Love is such an important quality for Bethelites.
I work in the computer department, but I don't treat computers with love, but the school strengthened my determination to treat my brothers and sisters with love.
And of all the other schools I've attended, this school had the most impact on my life.
In just one week it strengthens our faith, winds our view of things, trends our conscience and deepens our love.
It definitely stimulated the pioneer spirit, even though we're not pioneers, it helped us to understand the importance of the pioneer service and how it contributes to our overall joy in serving Jehovah.
So that's something we would never want to neglect. We really appreciated the emphasis that was placed on that and how it also helps to keep our close relationship with Jehovah.